[docs] Handbook pages (#1141)
mui/base-ui: docs/src/app/(public)/(content)/react/handbook/animation/page.mdx

# Animation

> <Subtitle>A guide to animating Base UI components.</Subtitle>

Reviewer: Very clean 👌

<Meta name="description" content="A guide to animating Base UI components." />

Base UI components support CSS Transition, CSS Animation, or JavaScript animation libraries.

## CSS Transition

> Many Base UI components expose `[data-starting-style]` and `[data-ending-style]` attributes to use as style hooks for CSS Transition.

Reviewer 2: A few notes:
- these attrs are only for things that show/hide
- would be good to highlight why CSS transitions are better

```css title="popover.css"
.Popup {
  box-sizing: border-box;
  padding: 1rem 1.5rem;
  background-color: canvas;
  transform-origin: var(--transform-origin);
  transition:
    transform 150ms,
    opacity 150ms;

  &[data-starting-style],
  &[data-ending-style] {
    opacity: 0;
    transform: scale(0.9);
  }
}
```

## CSS Animation

You can use CSS animation to animate both enter and exit animations.

> 

Reviewer 2: ## CSS animations

Use the following Base UI attributes for creating CSS animations when a component becomes visible or hidden:

- `[data-open]` corresponds to the style applied when a component becomes visible
- `[data-ending-style]` corresponds the style applied before a component becomes hidden

Reviewer 2: You'll need to update your CSS example too (it won't work)

```css title="popover.css"
@keyframes scaleIn {
  from {
    opacity: 0;
    transform: scale(0.9);
  }
  to {
    opacity: 1;
    transform: scale(1);
  }
}

@keyframes scaleOut {
  from {
    opacity: 1;
    transform: scale(1);
  }
  to {
    opacity: 0;
    transform: scale(0.9);
  }
}

.Popup[data-open] {
  animation: scaleIn 250ms ease-out;
}

.Popup[data-closed] {
  animation: scaleOut 250ms ease-in;
}
```

> ## JavaScript animation
> 
> JavaScript animation libraries such as [Motion](https://motion.dev) require control of the mounting and unmounting lifecycle of components. Most Base UI components are unmounted by default, when in their closed or unchecked state, so components provide the `keepMounted` prop to allow JavaScript animation libraries to take control.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## JavaScript animations

JavaScript animation libraries such as [Motion](https://motion.dev) require control of the mounting and unmounting lifecycle of components. Most Base UI components are unmounted when hidden. These components usually provide the `keepMounted` prop to allow JavaScript animation libraries to take control.
```

# Animation

<Subtitle>A guide to animating Base UI components.</Subtitle>
<Meta name="description" content="A guide to animating Base UI components." />

Base UI components can be animated using CSS transitions, CSS animations, or JavaScript animation libraries. Each component provides a number of data attributes to target its states, as well as a few attributes specifically for animation.

> ## CSS Transition

Reviewer 2: Same
```suggestion
## CSS transition
```

Use the following Base UI attributes for creating transitions when a component becomes visible or hidden:

- `[data-starting-style]` corresponds to the initial style to transition from.
- `[data-ending-style]` corresponds the final style to transition to.

Transitions are recommended over CSS animations, because a transition can be smoothly cancelled midway. For example, if the user closes a popup before it finishes opening, with CSS transitions it will smoothly animate to its closed state without any abrupt changes.

```css title="popover.css"
.Popup {
  box-sizing: border-box;
  padding: 1rem 1.5rem;
  background-color: canvas;
  transform-origin: var(--transform-origin);
  transition:
    transform 150ms,
    opacity 150ms;

  &[data-starting-style],
  &[data-ending-style] {
    opacity: 0;
    transform: scale(0.9);
  }
}
```

> ## CSS Animation

Reviewer 2: This random casing still bugs me
```suggestion
## CSS animation
```
